#### Background 
The overall goal of this project is to develop a hierarchical, multi-agent reinforcement learning framework to enable the retrosynthetic design of pathways towards small-molecules of varying structural complexities. Retrosynthesis, broadly, can be defined as the decomposition of a given target molecule into a set of precursors that can be readily purchased. Once such precursors, or building blocks have been identified, scientists can use these starting materials and implement the proposed reactions in the forward direction to actually synthesize their desired molecule. 

Traditionally, retrosynthesis has been a manual endeavor. Chemists with significant learned expertise and intuition would typically design pathways by hand, drawing upon their years of experiences with lab-scale syntheses and knowledge of organic chemistry to convert starting materials into valuable targets. This approach, however, is ineffective for two reasons. First, it is not comprehensive. Even the best chemists cannot exhaustively traverse the entire knowledge graph of reactions, and consequently pathways, connecting molecules together in chemical space. As a result, such manual methods may favor familiar or intuitive routes while overlooking alternative pathways that may be shorter and potentially more efficient. Second, manual pathway design may not lead to the discovery of novel reactions. Within biology, for instance, many enzymes tend to be promiscuous and can exhibit activity towards non-native substrates with similar substructures to their native counterparts. Systematically exploring thousands, or millions, of such potential enzyme-substrate combinations through manual examination and pattern-matching alone would be prohibitively time-consuming, thereby limiting the discovery of novel yet viable reaction cascades.

Given these limitations with manual pathway design, computational tools can be immensely helpful for retrosynthesis. Computer-aided synthesis planning (CASP) software can help to 1) more comprehensively explore chemical space and 2) suggest novel yet feasible pathways to valuable targets.

#### Existing work
Computational retrosynthesis is not a new field and has been tackled previously via many different approaches. In order to simulate chemical reactions *in silico*, writing, or extracting reaction rules/ templates with the popular cheminformatics tools RDKit and Daylight SMARTS is common practice. Such templates often encode relevant substructures that are mechanistically required for various enzymatic and/ or synthetic chemistry reactions reported in the literature. Given a new substrate with the requisite substructures, these templates can then be applied recursively to generate new products and consequently, new reaction networks. 

Over the past couple of years, with the rising popularity of the transformer architecture, template-free methods have also emerged for predicting novel reactions *in silico*. Instead of explicitly searching for mechanistically relevant substructures within reactants, such reaction language models take in a sequence of reactants and use the next token prediction training objective to learn to output the correct sequence of products. When pre-trained on large corpora of experimentally reported, and in some cases synthetically generated reactions, these models aim to implicitly learn the underlying chemical semantics governing reaction outcomes and to accurately predict the products of diverse chemical transformations. Similar to reaction templates, once such models have been obtained, they can be applied recursively on a set of starting materials/ targets to output multi-step reaction schemes. 

While retrosynthesis tools for biological and chemical synthesis have traditionally existed in isolation, emerging platforms are now beginning to merge these two domains together and leverage their complementary strengths. Regular, mono-functional enzymes in biology, such as alcohol dehydrogenases, decarboxylases, or aminotransferases excel at stereoselectively and regioselectively modifying functional groups on a substrate's carbon backbone. 